What's up everybody? Welcome to your
daily digest for Friday, May 9th, 2025,
where I bring you fact-based
non-sensational objective information.
Today we are kicking off with the SEC
considering new rules that will ease
security token issuance. In a speech
published on May 8th by SEC Commissioner
Hester Pur, the regulator is considering
a potential exemptive order for firms
using blockchain technology to issue,
trade, and settle securities that would
release them from certain registration
requirements. This is just a long line
in a series of positive notes that have
come out of the SEC. So, keep your ears
to the ground for future guidelines.
In other news, Trump was tricked into
pushing XRP that was going to be part of
the digital asset reserve. Trump was
purportedly manipulated by lobbyist, a
lobbyist tied to Ripple Labs, uh, Brian
Ballard, who actually gave Trump
reportedly a text that he would be able
to post to social
media where he was recommended to
announce the US crypto strategic reserve
would include Ripple, Salana, and
Cardano. After he posted the message on
March 2nd, Trump learned that Ripple
Labs was one of Ballard's clients. And
this infuriated Trump because he felt
like he'd been used and
manipulated. Trump said he is not
welcome in anything anymore. Referencing
Ballad
Ballard. Moving on. Uh the other day,
yesterday, Democrats blocked support for
the US stable coin bill, the Genius Act
going through Senate, which failed to
pass Cloer on May 8th. Um, a lot of
folks are disappointed in this because
it was purportedly seen as a bipartisan
effort and as we've seen with the market
structure bill walk out earlier this
year led by Representative Waters and
this now uh failure to reach closure for
the genius bill. Uh we're starting to
see some divisions in the bipartisan
nature of the current stable coin and
market structure bills going through
Congress. But Blockchain Association CEO
Kristen Smith said, "While disappointed
that the Genius Act did not pass its
closure vote today, we remain encouraged
by the bipartisan engagement on this
critical digital asset legislation."
During the time when I went to DC in
December of 2023, the divide wasn't
necessarily between Democrats and
Republicans, even though that's being
painted as it is right now. It was more
along the lines of boomers and everybody
younger than them. So keep your ears to
the ground for what happens there. The
uni chain
EVML2 has surpassed Ethereum as its top
chain for unis swap version 4 by
transaction
volume. Uni chain's dominance in V4 has
is also attributed to a $45 million
liquidity incentive program which drove
activity in addresses and TVL. According
to DeFi Llama, the uni chain is the
third largest L2 rollup by TVL at $800
million. And as we can see here in this
purple, that is the amount of market
share that uni chain has been able to
capture for unis swap
v4. Moving on, Superstate has unveiled
opening bell, which will be a platform
that
tokenizes SEC registered public shares
or equities on chain rather than trading
a synthetic or a wrapped version.
Superstate was among several firms to
recently propose an SEC backed framework
to bring Wall Street stocks on to the
blockchain.
The platform will initially launch on
Salana but has plans to extend to
Ethereum and
others. In crime season, Alex Mashinsky,
the CEO, disgraced CEO of the former
Borrowland platform custodial
centralized platform Celsius, has been
sentenced to 12 years in prison for
fraud. We are finally starting to see
the wave of main actors and criminals
from 2021 and 2022 get washed up and
sent into the places where they belong
for stealing money from hard earned
stealing hard-earned money from people
who aren't necessarily
um accredited investors and really just
your everyday average retail investor
who aren't as sophisticated as
traditional accredited investors which
is largely why Mashinsky probably saw
closer to 12 years rather than three
because of the people he prayed on. Uh,
additionally, this one is just stupid.
Uh, a USbased man sent
$185,000 to ISIS in 2019. He's been
sentenced to 30 years in prison. Could
possibly face more. Um, and part of the
issues for why beyond sending money to a
terrorist group, why uh this individual
is also spending more time in jail uh is
because he tried to flee the US during
an FBI probe. Um, he ended up uh taking
money out of an ATM and then going to a
Taco Bell where he paid someone to drive
him to a relative's house and then the
relative drove him to a grocery store
and then he purchased a series of bus
tickets misspelling his name and using
recently created email accounts and then
traveled from Virginia to Mexico to
Guatemala and then bought plane tickets
from Guatemala to Panama and then onto
Germany and then Egypt. But an Interpol
blue notice was issued. he was caught
and sent back to the US. Don't do crime,
but even more importantly, don't send
money to terrorist groups. Um, wrapping
up, Meta is exploring stablecoin
integration for payouts. Meta is, of
course, the parent company for Facebook,
and they want to integrate stable coin
payments into its platforms after a
three-year hiatus from cryptocurrencies.
This is uh kind of ringing bells and and
making me laugh a little bit because the
whole reason why the United States
government is even talking about crypto
or stable coins at all today can largely
be tied to a pivotal point that happened
about three years ago and that was when
Facebook Meta put forth the Libracoin
which later got termed DM which was
going to be a basket of commodities and
different currencies.
that backed a Facebook stable coin. And
Congress went nuts on Facebook. They
didn't think that a centralized entity
should be able to create a stable coin.
And that was largely what kicked off
Congress and regulators and legislators
actually caring about crypto and
blockchain. Um, that's just my
speculation, but everything changed
after Facebook started having its
congressional hearings about the Libra
stable coin. And lastly, lots of people
on Poly Market lost lots of money
because the Pope, who's an American, was
a 1% chance to win on Poly Market and
about $28 million in
losses was was um experienced because
people placed bets on candidates other
than Provost, the American. um largely
why I think the papay election was such
a money losing event for others
especially when we've seen prediction
markets be very very accurate when it
comes to public elections it's because
there wasn't any insider information
that was leaked the 133 cardinals that
voted on the pope do so in a very
tight-knit room where no information is
able to get out so Um, uh, one of the
folks associated with Poly Market said,
"It's like walking into a store that
doesn't communicate with the outside
world. Not even the participants
themselves would probably know how to
handicap it." So, there you go. That is
probably why there was such a rampantly
wide market on this particular
prediction market. That just about wraps
up this week and today for the Daily
Digest. If you appreciated what you saw,
please head over to the Smart Economy
podcast subreddit where you can keep up
to date with all of our daily digests,
our weekly spaces, and our bimonthly
podcasts. And with all that said, have a
great weekend and we'll catch you next
time.